---
layout: post
title:  "UIForia Roadmap 2020"
date:   2019-11-15 08:45:00 +0100
categories: news
---

# UIForia RoadMap 2020

## Coming up next
By the end of 2019 we will have finished all of the ground work needed
for our 2020 road map. This includes a reworked graphics and layout system,
a new compiler for templates and expressions and a lot of other cool things.

This document, however, focuses on the next year and gives a broad overview
of features we aim to implement with some prioritization. We assigned priority
numbers from 1 to 3 to the features that indicate critical (1), important (2)
and features that are nice to have (3). If we run out of time we'll probably
postpone nice to have features to a later milestone.

Note that this document is being kept up to date, which also means we might have
learned something along the way and change our milestone priorities or even add
new features to them.

## UIForia Milestone 2020.1

- Mobile Support (1)
- New Unity Input integration (2)
- Consoles (3)
- WebGL (3)

Supporting all major platforms requires a code generating build step and an update to our
input system to support gestures, touch and controllers. Since SEED is our main customer
we would aim for mobile first with support for consoles and WebGL as nice to have.

## UIForia Milestone 2020.2

- Resolution scaling (1)
- Forms (1)
- Improve font rendering (3)
- Support Multi Channel SDF Text (3)

In the second milestone we'll focus on adding support for different display densities.
We know this from the web where pixel measurements are scaled up 2x or 3x depending on
the dpi / ppi. This will be crucial for supporting all sorts of displays on all platforms.

Form support will be a parallel major point of this milestone. We hope to design a form
system that can validate (built-in and custom validators) all input fields. All current
input fields will be equipped with optional form support as well, so they can be used in
a form or standalone.

Improved font rendering will be a bonus goal here, since we have to see along the way how
important improvements actually are when we see it in different settings.

## UIForia Milestone 2020.3

- Style Variables (1)
- SVG Support (2)
- Path definitions in Style Sheets (2)

Style variables will enable you to pass data to style sheets in some way so that you can
use a variable as a property value. This might include support for property value functions
like calc().
   
   
      For a long time we prepared the graphics system to support custom painters and an API that
      makes it easy to draw all kinds of shapes. It's actually being done with SVG support in mind
      and in milestone we'll probably be ready to natively render SVGs. This will definitely
      come hand in hand with a path definition API for style sheets.
   

## UIForia Milestone 2020.4
   
- Custom Layout Types (1) 
- Hex/Radial Layout Types (1) 
- Render Blocks (2) 
- Render Portals (2) 
   

   
      Layout is hard. We currently support Flex, Stack and Grid layouts but don't have a
      production ready version of hex and radial layout. That's going to change!
      Also long planned: custom layout types. Our layout API should be stable enough at this
      point to open it up for user defined layout types.
   
   
      Render blocks and portals are a planned extension to our template language, which will make
      it easier to compose elements via portals and reuse template snippets (blocks). There will
      be a more in-depth definition of those later ;)
   

## UIForia Milestone 2020.5
   
- Slivers (1) 
- Attribute Event Listeners (1) 
- Async Loading (2) 
   
We get inspiration from a lot of other frameworks, so thanks to flutter we aim to add
our own version of [Slivers](https://flutter.dev/docs/development/ui/advanced/slivers) to UIForia.


Attribute listeners will make it super easy to add an event callback to custom elements
that are triggered when certain attributes change.


Async loading is an idea for optimizing apps that use a huge amount of ui elements or
elements that have very expensive initialization costs. We need to do some more research
on a live example (SEED) to flesh out this feature.
   

## UIForia Milestone 2020.6
   
- Testing Framework (1) 
- Addressable Assets integration (1) 
- Effect Framework (Graphics) (2) 
- WISYWIG Editor (3) 

If we haven't done it by then we definitely will create a user friendly testing framework
to test custom UIForia elements. We'll use if for internal testing as well so there might
be APIs by then we just need to polish and open up.

[Addressable Assets](https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.addressables@0.4/manual/index.html) is yet another Unity feature we'll add support for.

The final milestone of the year will bring a new API to more easily add custom effects
to your elements. You can use a lot of cool things right now as well, like particles,
but the effect framework aims a bit higher in terms of freedom and usability.

As far as Unity editor support goes we have some tools to debug your application element
hierarchy and see all the element property values. As bonus task for this milestone we'll
try to make a more designer friendly tool, a WISYWIG editor, that makes in-editor element
placement and configuration a piece of cake.
   